Infectious diseases
have been around for a long time.
In the past, you may have just heard
about outbreaks in other places.
But what can you do
when a disease spreads close to home?
So much is out of your control.
It can be scary.
But there’s a lot you can do
to protect yourself and stay healthy.
Some of the most effective steps
are also the simplest,
like washing your hands often.
If you wash for at least 20 seconds,
soap and water can break up the virus
or bacteria and rinse it away.
A strong alcohol-based hand sanitizer
can work too.
Cough and sneeze into a tissue
or the inside of your elbow.
And avoid touching your face,
especially after you touch something else.
Follow instructions from the authorities.
That might mean staying home for a while,
wearing a mask when you go out,
or keeping the recommended safe distance
from other people.
And if you do get sick,
call a doctor right away.
Your emotional health is important too!
Too much bad news, unverified rumors,
even conflicting reports can cause anxiety.
Stay informed, but set limits
so you don’t feel overwhelmed.
Keep yourself occupied,
and stay connected with friends and family.
You might cheer them up
and feel a little better yourself.
There’s another aspect
of your health that’s important.
In the Bible, Jesus sought time alone
to pray and meditate.
Use some of your time
to take care of your spiritual health.
If you focus on a hope for a better future,
it’ll be easier to cope with challenges today.
Jehovah’s Witnesses keep their hope strong
by sharing it with others in whatever ways are safe.
They show people what the Bible teaches.
They invite them to their meetings too.
If possible, they meet in person.
If not, they have video meetings.
The Bible says at Isaiah 33:24
that someday no one will say: “I am sick.”
Until then, it says at Isaiah 30:15
that “your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
So when things like this happen,
do your best to stay calm,
stay informed,
and stay healthy.